India was sent into meltdown when a man wearing a white apron purporting to be a doctor at the Ranchi hospital issued a statement to a throng of waiting media, dropping the bombshell that Virat Kohli – the world’s best batsman – was set to miss the rest of the series against Australia with his bung shoulder.

FLINTOFF: Kohli on different planet to Smith

LISTEN: The Daily Telegraph’s Ben Horne and The Australian’s Peter Lalor dissect the second day’s play in India

“While the bones are intact, there is a ligament tear and he was having acute problems in hand movement,” the man said.

The only problem was the man in the white apron, wasn’t actually a doctor at all, but a “technician” at the hospital.

In other words, he’s the bloke who pushes the buttons to turn the MRI machine on and off.

The hilarious cameo from the trolley man in Ranchi is the latest chapter in the mystery that is, what’s up with Mr Kohli?

India’s out-of-sorts skipper has a shoulder injury of some significance if the fact he hasn’t been sighted since midway through day one is anything to go by.

At this stage, there’s no proof that the trolley man won’t be proven a genius.

Without Kohli India appear directionless and there must be serious concern about how to manage his shoulder now for the rest of this match.

The BCCI has twice giving updates to suggest Kohli would return to the field momentarily, but so far that is yet to happen.

“Relevant investigations have revealed that there are no serious concerns, which will hamper his speedy recovery from a strain in his right shoulder,” said the BCCI in a statement.

“He will continue to receive treatment which will assist him to participate in the rest of the match.

No one saw it coming, but Kohli has become the enigmatic figure of this series.

Conspicuously out of form, Kohli’s only real impact so far has been to ignite World War III after the Bangalore Test by accusing Australia of systematic cheating.

Kohli crashed down hard on his right shoulder when attempting to field a ball midway through day one and now he has disappeared again.

In extraordinary scenes at the Ranchi hospital, there were almost more people gathered out the front to give Kohli a rock star reception as he made his exit, than turned up at the cricket stadium for the second day’s play.

Perhaps they knew more than the BCCI or even the trolley man – that if there’s no Kohli, no India.