Sorry but,he too suffers from injuries but the way he comes back is the reason behind his success and greatness..!!

To support these…Let’s go back in time!!

Virat Kohli is in the form of his life at the moment, having earned comparisons with legends like Don Bradman and Sachin Tendulkar.

While the comparisons might be justified due to his sheer brilliance and consistency, what makes his performances even more staggering is the fact that he has batted through an injury in his last two innings, both of which contributed towards victories for RCB as they marched to the second position in the IPL points table.

In the match against KKR on Monday, Kohli split the webbing on his left hand while diving in an attempt to take a catch.

He was rushed off the field, but to everyone's surprise, he was back soon with a bandaged webbing.

Not only did he come out to bat later that day, but also scored a match-winning 75 not out from 51 balls, forging a century stand with AB de Villiers to lead Bangalore to a nine-wicket win. Despite having stitches on his left hand, Kohli played in the next match as well.

In a rain-curtailed 15-over game, Kohli smashed 113 off 50 balls, including 12 fours and eight sixes, to guide RCB to their third consecutive win and keep their playoff hopes alive.

While Kohli has scored heaps of runs right from the start in his career, this display of bravery has won the hearts of many. His passion and commitment towards his team and the game, leading from the front despite adversities earned him rare accolades. Kohli may have a plenty more to offer in a career that has barely its halfway mark, but this performance will surely be remembered as one of the current Indian Test skipper's greatest moments.

The 'Gentleman's game' does come with its share of injuries, many of which turn out to be career or even life-threatening, and a handful of which even end up being fatal.

However, there are the tales of bravery scripted every now and then; cricket is full of instances that could provide the perfect fodder for an inspirational sports film.

HOPE VIRAT KOHLI NEVER EVER SUFFER FROM INJURY. IF HE GET INJURED INDIA WILL LOST CERTAINLY LOSE D MATCH WINNER.