Argentina's humbling 3-0 defeat at the hands of Croatia on Thursday was characterised by a quiet display from Lionel Messi, once again posing the question as to who you would pick if given a choice between the diminutive Argentine and Cristiano Ronaldo.

There is a crisis engulfing Argentinean football at this moment, with it unclear as to whether Jorge Sampaoli will even be in charge for the final group match against Nigeria.

The pressure on Barcelona's forward has been enormous, and it's only been intensified by the incredible start Ronaldo has made in the tournament, scoring four goals in two matches.

A leaked audio clip of a conversation between Diego Simeone and his assistant coach, German Burgos, on Thursday evening saw the Atletico Madrid coach actually ask the aforementioned question.

MARCA has attempted to find an answer with two senior writers giving their contrasting opinions:

For any team I would prefer to have Messi before any other player. Speaking of 'normal' teams, to quote Simeone, Leo took this Argentina, a normal team, to three finals. He lost them in extra time and penalties, so we'll agree that just as easily as he lost them, he could have also emerged victorious. It was almost a question of chance and I don't think that there is another player with more power to have made the difference. Higuain missed and Eder scored from outside the box.

Speaking of winning with good players around you, we must remember that the period in which Ronaldo has achieved the most success (four Champions Leagues in five seasons) has been when he's been surrounded by a historic team. You need look no further than the current World Cup to realise the all-star nature of the current iteration of Los Blancos: the best Spanish player (Isco), the best Croatian player (Modric), the best Portuguese player (Ronaldo), the best German player (Kroos), the second best Brazilian player (Marcelo)... so who is surrounded by better footballers?

Messi has won multiple LaLiga titles in recent seasons with very good teams, that isn't in doubt, but they haven't been the best team. He was surrounded by the truly best players in every position during Pep Guardiola's time at the Camp Nou, but the best players don't play at Barcelona any more, they play in Madrid. However, he's continued to win titles, over 38 matches on an annual basis Messi is still the best player and the stats don't lie.

If I was a Director of Football at a 'normal' team, and a genie gave me the opportunity to choose between Messi and Ronaldo then I would have a clear idea of my decision. The very next day Ronaldo would have our shirt on. There can be no doubt that he is well surrounded by people who are willing to do the dirty work for him. Messi has nothing to prove, Ronaldo doesn't either, but in poor teams one of those players who leads from the front and scores goals regularly is priceless.

This season Real Valladolid has been promoted to LaLiga simply because Jaime Mata has scored 33 goals. The 24 strikes contributed by Raul de Tomas helped Rayo Vallecano immensely. At the end of the season multiple objectives are achieved because a team's forwards have enjoyed a productive year in front of goal, no matter how good their overall game is. To have a player who makes the difference in the way Ronaldo does is outrageous. This is why Simeone was trying to say in a private conversation that we all heard.

That said, on equal terms, if we gave to surround one of the two behemoths with ten average players, then I believe the one who would give the biggest boost to the club in terms of points would be Ronaldo. In the end, this is what counts. Portugal doesn't have a great team and he's already scored four goals. Messi has played the same number of matches and hasn't found the net. Ronaldo has the country on his back and is a truly unquestionable leader.