Kim Kardashian West and younger sister Kylie Jenner stepped out for a coffee run yesterday in Calabasas wearing almost the exact same outfits. The reality stars were seen rocking nearly identical head-to-toe looks—from matching neutral spandex leggings (Kim in dark green, Kylie in neutral grey), coordinating skin-tight tops, gold mirror aviator sunglasses, and even the same pointed-toe sock booties. Jenner accessorized her look with a crossbody blue fanny pack.



Although neither sister confirmed it officially, it is easy to guess that Kanye West is behind these looks. Kanye recently collaborated with brand 2XU on scuba leggings, similar to what Kim and Kylie were seen wearing. The rapper-turned-designer has been known to style his family in Yeezy outfits before they hit the runway, and these looks are very on brand with his minimalistic style.

This also wouldn't be the first time a Kardashian was caught modeling Yeezy for the paparazzi. The KKW Beauty founder previously debuted her husband's designs in public and they used the pap images for the official campaign.

Despite their 17 year age gap, Kylie and Kim have a lot more in common than just their off-duty style. Of course, there's their exploding makeup empires, KKW Beauty and Kylie Cosmetics. Plus, they just welcomed baby girls within weeks of each other. Kim's third child, Chicago West, was born via surrogate less than one month before Kylie gave birth to her daughter, Stormi Webster, in February. However, Jenner just deleted all photos of her daughter from social media, while West continues posting her kids regularly.



It's been a busy week for West, who just appeared on Celebrity Family Feud alongside sisters Kendall and Khloé, met with President Trump (who later granted clemency to Alice Marie Johnson), and supported husband Kanye West as he dropped his new album.



The trailer for season 15 of Keeping Up with the Kardashians (which premieres this summer) promises a look behind the biggest headlines, teasing "Momager Knows Best," "Power Family," and "Kim Means Business."