John Abraham is indeed one of the most honest Bollywood actors. In a recent interview, when the Parmanu actor was asked which of the three Khans - Shah Rukh, Aamir, Salman - would he save from a sinking ship, his answer was proof that John will not bluff, never!

John Abraham is a reclusive actor. The hunk is known to do things a little differently. Right from chosing unconventional roles to treading a path less travelled in Bollywood, the Parmanu actor has managed to stand tall despite competition from the industry biggies. An outsider with no filmi connections, John has lived his life in limelight and talked his mind and heart out unlike most celebrities. In a recent interview, we got to see that side of John Abraham yet again. When the Parmanu hero had to pick between Aamir, Salman and Shah Rukh Khan his response was utmost honest. The question was: If Salman Khan, Shah Rukh Khan and Aamir Khan were in a sinking ship and I could save only one fo them, who'd I pick? John read out the question, reasoned for about five seconds and replied.

The actor picked Shah Rukh Khan. John then went on to reveal his reasons and said, "I guess it would be Shah Rukh Khan. Because I love the personality and if I were to direct I would love to direct Shah Rukh." The actor was also his most candid best on Rajeev Masand's Fashing For Answers segment. The Dostana star talked about how he does a fabulous impression of Sanjay Dutt and even went on to joke about how Ranbir Kapoor is now doing it in Sanju.

John's answer on saving the one Khan did not really come as a surprise to us considering the not so pleasant past that the actor shares with Salman Khan. Those of you who've been living under the rock and do not know about John-Salman's cold war here's the story...

John Abraham and Salman Khan had a massive fallout during the Rockstar tour. Apparently their cold war also continued on Babul sets. Such was John and Salman's rivalry that the Jism hero's then girlfriend, actress Bipasha Basu too didn't see eye-to-eye with the Dabangg hero. While the duo had hugged and made up on the sets of a reality show hosted by Salman, their war made headlines yet again when John announced the release date of his film Welcome Back on his micro-blogging page. Salman Khan put out a rather cryptic tweet asking the actor to back off as he announced Sooraj Pancholi's Hero release date on the same date a few days later on hsi social media page. Of course, Salman didn't buckle down to requests and John's Welcome Back release was postponed.

In fact, it was said that Salman wasn't too happy about John's proximity with his then ladylove Katrina Kaif on the sets of Kabir Khan's New York. Kabir-John's friendship took a backseat when the filmmaker started doing back-to-back movies with Salman Khan. That's not all, apparently Katrina too had complained to Salman about John ousting the actress from a movie, which did not go down well with the Kick hero.

Buzz was also that before Salman signed Race 3, John was also supposed to be a part of the movie. However, with Salman coming in John and the rest of the cast was dissolved and a fresh new set of actors were roped in.

Come back right here for more such hot scoops and goss from the world of entertainment.