Sylvester Stallone almost boycotted the Oscars in reaction to the #OscarsSoWhite issue, but after consulting with Creed's Ryan Coogler, decided it would be best to attend and represent the film.

The Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office is reviewing sexual assault allegations against Sylvester Stallone, according to a DA spokesperson.

A new case was presented Wednesday by the Santa Monica Police Department, the spokesperson said.

“A case was presented today by the Santa Monica Police Department regarding Sylvester Stallone,” Greg Risling, a spokesman at the Los Angeles District Attorney’s office, told AFP.

“It is under review by our sex crime task force.”

Details were not given about the allegations against the actor. Media reports from last year, however, outline at least two alleged incidents of sexual assault from his past.

The allegation against the star comes in the wake of the #MeToo movement that has focused attention on sexual harassment in Hollywood and beyond.

The first was said to have happened in the 1990s, but it wasn’t reported until late last year.

Law enforcement sources told TMZ back in December that an unidentified woman filed a report with Santa Monica police — “alleging a rape that occurred 27 years ago” while she was dating Stallone. The statue of limitations were said to have already expired on that case, though.

The second alleged incident of sexual assault involving Stallone was said to have happened in 1986 at a Las Vegas hotel.

A teen reportedly accused the Rocky star of forcing her into a threesome with his bodyguard — and then threatening to “beat her head in” if she told anyone about what they did. The Daily Mail obtained a police report last November, detailing what allegedly went down.

“This is a ridiculous, categorically false story,” a spokeswoman for Stallone said in a statement at the time.

“No one was ever aware of this story until it was published today, including Mr. Stallone. At no time was Mr Stallone ever contacted by any authorities or anyone else regarding this matter.”

Santa Monica police told reporters in December that they were investigating allegations made against the actor, but they didn’t provide any further details.

“We got a complaint that was made in November of alleged sexual misconduct in the 1990s,” SMPD spokesman Saul Rodriguez told Reuters.

“We are looking into it and will gather information and whatever we discover will be passed to the district attorney.”

Stallone’s camp has denied both of the allegations of assault, and even threatened to file claims accusing the alleged victims of filing false police reports.

Attempts to reach his lawyer, Martin Singer, were unsuccessful Wednesday night.

This story was originally published in the New York Post and is republished with permission