Taylor Swift is an American singer-songwriter. She is one of the most popular contemporary female singers known for singing songs related to break up and falling in love and heart breaks which has received much media attention.She signed with the independent label Big Machine Records and became the youngest artist ever signed by the Sony/ATV Music publishing house. Her debut album in 2006 peaked at number five on Billboard 200 and spent the most weeks on the chart in the 2000s. The album's third single, Our Song, made her the youngest person to single-handedly write and perform a number-one song on the Hot Country Songs chart. Swift's second album, Fearless, was released in 2008. Buoyed by the pop crossover success of the singles Love Story and You Belong with Me, Fearless became the best-selling album of 2009 in the United States. The album won four Grammy Awards, with Swift becoming the youngest Album of the Year winner.

Written by Anjali Jha | New Delhi | Updated: June 5, 2018 at 2:43 pm Country musician Taylor Swift gave a heartfelt message dedicated to the LGBTQ community emphasising on how the world will become a beautiful place once everyone becomes free to live and love anyone they like.

This Twitter user thinks nobody is as ‘badass’ as Taylor Swift and Internet proved him wrong By: Trends Desk | New Delhi | Updated: December 6, 2017 at 10:22 am While the Twitter user could have posted this in jest, the Internet was filled with heart-warming responses — with some calling their mother savage to others who listed out names of famous women and their achievements.

In Taylor Swift’s new album Reputation, fans and music writers saw hints of her ex-boyfriends Calvin Harris and Thor: Ragnarok actor Tom Hiddleston as possible subjects in two of her tracks ‘I Did Something Bad’ and ‘Dancing with Our Hands Tied.’

Taylor Swift’s new song ‘Dress’ is making Twitterati jump out of their skin By: Trends Desk | New Delhi | Updated: November 11, 2017 at 7:33 am Taylor Swift dropped her latest album ‘Reputation’ on November 10, and the Internet lost its calm. The new song ‘Dress’, its sensuous lyrics and the rainbow dress that the pop star donned became the talk of the town.

Taylor Swift’s latest song “Call It What You Want” from Reputation is out By: Express Web Desk | New Delhi | Updated: November 3, 2017 at 4:26 pm Watch Call It What You Want: Ahead of the release of Taylor Swift’s album, Reputation, the fourth song her album was released online just a few hours ago. The song’s lyrics are poetic, comforting and gauging by her fans’ reactions, this will be on top of the charts in no time.

WATCH: ‘Game of Thrones’ stars kill it with Taylor Swift’s song lyrics in this mash-up By: Trends Desk | New Delhi | Updated: October 28, 2017 at 5:50 pm While many of us are eagerly waiting for the next season, a new video of Game of Thrones characters singing Taylor Swift’s song has gone viral on social media and surely made the fans happy.

Pink on Taylor Swift and Katy Perry feud: I should have just kept my mouth shut Singer Pink picked Taylor Swift’s side years ago in London while there was an ongoing feud between Swift and Katy Perry. Pink regrets that episode and believes she should have just kept her mouth shut as she is “not inclined towards drama, feuds and soundbites”.

VIDEO: Game of Thrones stars sing Taylor Swift’s ‘Look What You Made Me Do’ By: Trends Desk | New Delhi | Updated: September 10, 2017 at 1:24 am In a 1.19-minute clip, the Game of Thrones cast can be seen singing Taylor Swift’s latest single ‘Look What You Made Me Do’ and it is going viral. The mashup created by clubbing the lyrics of the song with scenes from the show has already garnered more than 140,000 views.

Taylor Swift is ‘Ready For It’, and her new single is proof Written by Shivangi Jalan | New Delhi | Updated: September 3, 2017 at 8:02 pm Pop singer Taylor Swift recently released a 1-minute teaser of her upcoming song “Ready For It” from Reputation, during the lead-in to ESPN’s Florida State vs. Alabama college football game. This song is a peppy and energetic number in stark contrast to “Look What You Made Me Do.”

If fans weren’t sure how to react to Taylor Swift’s latest single ‘Look What You Made Me Do’, everyone seems to unanimously love this mash-up with Britney Spears’ ‘Toxic’. It’s SO good, that we feel it should have been the original!

Taylor Swift’s Look What You Made Me Do new music video decoded Written by Shivangi Jalan | New Delhi | Updated: August 28, 2017 at 1:48 pm Taylor Swift’s most-awaited track, “Look What You Made Me Do” from the album “Reputation” was premiered at the Video Music Awards 2017 last night and fans have been losing calm over it ever since. In some obvious innuendos to her tiff with Kanye West and Kim Kardashians last year, this single is making all kinds of news.

From album cover to video visuals, Tweeple can’t stop trolling Taylor Swift’s new single By: Trends Desk | New Delhi | Updated: August 26, 2017 at 9:03 pm Taylor Swift’s latest song has become the butt of all jokes on social media. While Tweeple pointed out that the album cover’s font resembled that of Kenya West’s merchandise, now they are roasting the singer for “badly” recreating theme from Beyoncé’s “Lemonade” album.

Taylor Swift’s new single just dropped, and the dark number is already on loop Written by Priyanka Sundar | New Delhi | Updated: August 25, 2017 at 11:24 am Taylor Swift released her new song titled, “Look What You Made Me Do”. This is the first song from her upcoming album Reputation, which is slated to release on November 10. The pop star took to her Twitter account to share the song, which has gone viral since.